
Through out the book of Acts we see the early Church through many trials, and especially the Apostles, through their faith, are delivered from one bad situation after another.

We also see examples of how God did not have His Will or His Plan actualized by any conventional means.

The Gentiles are accepted into the Church because the Holy Spirit lead Peter to go INTO a gentiles home, share the Gospel with them, baptise them, and witnessed them receiving the Holy Spirit.

God chose one of the most ZEALOUS enemies of the church, a highly educated, extremely smart, Pharisee to take His Gospel to the Gentiles.

Not only that, but Paul, with his extensive theological education, and inbred knowledge of scripture was given time and opportunity to work out how Jesus' life, death, and resurrection are in fact the fulfillment of all of Israel's hope.  Jesus fulfills God's plan of the Salvation of Israel, but is also a blessing to all nations, just as He had promised Abraham.

Conclusion of Acts.

We have the Pauline title of Jesus:  The LORD Jesus Christ.

Peter and Paul are just the vehicles of the story.  The main character throughout the stories told in The Acts of the Apostles is Jesus himself.  A character who is only physically present in the beginning of the story, but is in fact the central character through the book.

This is evident by the way the book stops; it does not end; it stops!

It stops with the Pauline title of Jesus:  The LORD Jesus Christ.

Paul tells the Jewish leaders in Rome the gist of his message: (from NT Wright's Acts for Everyone, Part II pg 245) "that Israel's God, the creator, the God of Abraham, had, in the Messiah, Jesus, claimed His thrown as Lord of the world, the one of whom Caesar was simply a low-grade parody."
    "If He (Jesus) is Messiah, He is the world's true King."

When Acts stops, Jesus, through His servant Paul, has marched into Rome in the company of His believers.  (the Roman Christians traveled about 100 miles south of Rome, to Three Taverns and The Appian Forum, to accompany Paul into Rome)

Just as He has done every time, God makes Himself present and know through the most unexpected, unusual, and in most cases, the most humble ways.
